SPEAKER_02: Vincent Kompany at Burnley here in England at Constantine believed in his system, the system that got them up from the Championship to the Premier League, but the system hasn't quite worked in the Premier League and now Burnley are back down to the Championship next season. But now we hear Bayern Munich on the verge of agreeing a deal for Vincent Kompany to become the next manager. Before we go any further, where is that at this morning in Germany?

SPEAKER_00: They are in talks with Kompany. I mean, we don't have to sugarcoat anything. He's not their first choice. He's their eighth choice or so. We have talked about a number of candidates. Never anything come to fruition. Now Kompany has been put on their list and they have been in talks. knowing that they might get him away from Burnley. I mean, he's on the contract until 2028. So still, I think Bayern have now entered negotiations or at least talks with Burnley over a compensation for Vincent Kompany. And I think right now it looks like he could become the next Bayern coach. However, we have said that about Ralf Rangnick and a few others already in the past. So I only believe it once it happens. But yeah, as you said, he also played under Pep Guardiola for three years. And I think he has internalized a number of Guardiola's ideas. And they worked well when he was the under-legged manager because they are a top team in their league. And it worked well to an extent or to a lot when he was the Burnley manager in the championship when they were a top team there. It didn't really work when they were an underdog team playing in the Premier League, of course.

SPEAKER_02: Of course. Simon, what does it tell us more about? Does it tell us more about Kompany or more about the pool of managers available right now?

SPEAKER_01: A bit of both, I suspect. Well, no, actually, I think it tells us more about the pool of managers that are available because I don't think it tells us anything about Vincent Kompany. Vincent Kompany took Burnley out of the championship with 100 points. So did Sean Dyche. Sean Dyche put them into Europe the following season and Burnley, Vincent Kompany got them relegated. It tells you about the perception of Vincent Kompany through the media where he seems to get a pass and it seems to be something to be admired. I think there's no doubt he's a fabulous player. There's no doubt that he did a brilliant job in getting Burnley to pivot from a certain type of play to a completely different kind of play and be entertaining. But to go from a side being relegated to a side that you... And not just any side. This is not Leverkousen being in a bottom tier, the bottom part of the Bundesliga and not having economic strength and then putting Alonso in charge and giving him a chance. This is the powerhouse of German football. divider divider divider divider divider yes yeah divider divider divider and that's a completely different animal and i don't care how good a captain he was i don't care how well he did at getting burnley out of the championship whole different set of rules and it almost tears up the playbook and go well what's the thinking here what what have you okay maybe the thinking is that you've got a player and a personality that's big enough to be in that dressing room but i'm telling this if you're Harry Kane sitting in the dressing room thinking I've gone to play for Bayern Munich to win Champions Leagues in the Bundesliga and I'm going to go and play for elite managers oh I know I now going to get the guy that relegated as my manager divider divider divider divider divider divider divider divider divider divider divider divider it's a point one wonders how the the barn players will feel about it obviously they respect vincent company as a phenomenal former player but i wonder where their heads are regards vincent company the manager divider divider divider i totally agree and i mean we have come to this point because so many other managers didn't or reject byron's offers or when we look at oliver klasner where crystal palace just demanded an astronomical fee basically saying them we don't we don't let him go so you don't get him um so of course i mean that's why company is the eighth choice also i don't know i haven't counted but uh it feels like it at least and then players also know that um that he's not the preferred choice not the first or second choice uh when it comes to um the succession of uh thomas um of course number of players know him as as uh manchester city captain and as a outstanding sportsman and everything like that so i mean there's at least something there and what i have been told uh from sources close to byron that um byron are at least convinced that him as a personality and him as a leader that might work out but of course there are so many question marks behind the name vincent compagnie going to bayern especially because usually you wouldn't divider divider divider give someone who's a talent basically a talented manager a chance at the club like bayern probably there is a step in between to take but now he's could be jumping from burnley to buy it which is something you don't really believe to be honest.

SPEAKER_02: Something we would never have expected. Constantine, thank you. Constantine put it right into perspective. You're right, Simon. I mean, if you're Harry Kane, you're like, we're getting who? We're getting Vincent Kompany, are we?

SPEAKER_02: Do you know, it'll be fine until something goes wrong.

SPEAKER_01: Now, if he walks in the door and players will look at him and go, right, well, he's Vincent Kompany. Okay, we're really impressed with what he did at Anderlecht, I doubt. We're really impressed with what he did at Burnley, I doubt. But notwithstanding that, he's Vincent Kompany. He walks in the room and he commands an audience. Because you've seen him, he can put himself across relatively well. And he seems to have been able to get Burnley to pivot away from one style to another. But the moment something isn't quite where the players think it should be.

SPEAKER_02: Yes.

SPEAKER_02: That is when...

SPEAKER_01: You will see the cachet of a manager of Vincent Company standing.

SPEAKER_02: Be really tested.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, well, Constantine Eckner, not for the first time, thank you so much. Constantine with his finger very much in the pulse regards German football. Here's the thing, if Bayern are prepared to rip up the managerial playbook, what are Chelsea and Manchester United going to do? Stay with us. Jim White and Simon Jordan Monday to Friday mornings from 10 on AM, on DAB, via the TalkSport app and on your smart speaker TalkSport

